The Matrix
is the best revolutionary movie ever made. The only one who truly understands the Matrix
is Neo. The movie is misinterpreted in many ways, and the only good explanation about the movie is that is trying to show the people how the world has become enslaved to the technology, enslaved to the machines. The movie is a rebellion against power of the monetary system, and the one thing that we do not see in the movie is money, and money trading. It is not about the blue or the red pill, but about showing us the reality of the modern world, the bigger picture, the disconnection from the nature and the complete devotion to the system. It is showing us how each and everyone of us is so prone to the system that will betray anyone who is a rebel against it even his fellow friend or relative, just because they are not believing in the system. The movie is trying to open the eyes of blinded people who do not yet see the matrix, who do not understand that they are slaves in this world, that everything they are doing is for the money, and is trying to free the minds of those who are already awake and can see how the bullshit monetary system is destroying the world around them and the whole planet. There is a misinterpretation of what freedom is and what freedom once was, as freedom meaning being hooked to the machines being feed junk food, working behind the computers, not enjoying our everyday lives is becoming the freedom choice of the majority, and the freedom of living outside the system, off the grid or in the nature is being interpreted as a rebellion against the system. 
Many believe that it is a kind of brainwash, but is exactly the opposite, it is the awakening. Misinterpretation goes on and on about the confusion of the reality itself and how the dreams are the reality and how the reality is fake. And yes there is a part that will confuse people, the choice of taking a pill, but this is just a confusion to the ones that are on drugs, or the ones who are addicted to power or wealth, the ones that are already confused in their lives, and the movie to them is nothing but a sci-fi and a two hour entertainment. The true meaning of the movie is revealed only to the ones with higher IQs, and the one who understand it are being affected in a positive way even enlightened in a sense. Nowadays they are trying to use the misinterpreted parts of the movie to brainwash themselves and others, because they can not understand it, they think they can revolutionize the system inside the system that is blindfolding people for centuries.
There is no winners in the matrix, there are only the ones who understand it and the ones who pretend they do. The only reason anyone is using the expressions or scenes that are affecting the animal brain, the minds of the observers, is to influence and to mislead, because of their own confusion. 
For the awoken ones and for many it has become living hell in this world of confused addicted people on drugs, brainwashed by the system, as machines make their decisions based on statistics and facts. And the change that is yet to come, is inevitable, being postponed for many times, threatened by wars and restrains by the authority, to obey the system and to bow before the power of the wealth.
